Over the last several years,
the U.S. branch and world headquarters
have had the responsibility
of constructing several new buildings.
Nine of these buildings were awarded
a Four Green Globes rating,
which is the highest
Green Globes certification possible.
The two at Wallkill were
the Office Building
and F Residence.
The seven at the new Warwick complex
were the four residence buildings,
the Maintenance Building,
Office and Services Building,
and Vehicle Maintenance Building.
Now, a good number of you
may be asking right about now,
‘What exactly is this Green Globes program?’
Well, it is a program
which assesses
the “eco-friendliness” of a building
starting from design
through construction.
An independent third party
assesses
the environmental impact
of a completed building
on a scale of one to four Globes.
The organization
that coordinates the program stated
that a Four Green Globes rating
“demonstrates national leadership
“and excellence
in the practice of water, energy
and environmental efficiency
to reduce environmental impact.”
The organization that coordinates
the Green Globes program
drew our attention
to how significant an accomplishment
receiving this award is
by mentioning that only 4 percent
of properties that apply
are able to achieve the top rating
for even one of their buildings.
In spite of this,
on September 14, 2016,
the Warwick project
was simultaneously awarded
seven of these Four Green Globes
for all buildings that qualified
for consideration.
Now, understanding the significance
of this award,
you probably feel a measure
of pride and satisfaction
with this milestone.
Another question you may have is,
‘How does this environmental design
at Warwick and Wallkill
benefit the organization?’
Well, since Revelation 11:18
points out that it is
Jehovah that will ultimately need
to step in to save our earth from ruin,
the intent is not to join some
sustainable design fad
or try to do what only Jehovah can do.
This means that we don’t design
simply to be “green”
as many in the world would.
Rather, we saw
four noteworthy benefits
from this level of design.
First and foremost,
Jehovah’s name is glorified.
It often happens
that during the design phase of a project,
claims are made
as to the anticipated
environmental impact of a building’s design.
However, the final outcome
after construction often falls short
of what is promised,
which can leave officials quite frustrated.
With Warwick,
we modestly made known
our goal to the local officials and community
that we would strive
to achieve three of four Green Globes.
In contrast,
this award confirms
that Jehovah’s Witnesses
have kept our word by achieving
not three but four Green Globes.
Keeping our word
has brought honor to Jehovah
and built a trustworthy reputation
in the community.
And that leads to our second benefit.
This top environmental rating confirms
that we, as an organization,
respect Jehovah’s creation.
Being known
as responsible stewards
of the environment
allows us to have many benefits,
one of which
is in the case of Wallkill.
Our reputation made it easier
to gain approvals
to expand our facilities there.
A third benefit
is to our neighbors
in the surrounding community.
For example, the drinking water
in the adjoining lake is not contaminated.
Our site lighting
doesn’t light the night sky.
The use of native plants
serves to protect the health
of the beautiful surrounding forest
that we all enjoy.
And the design and location
of the buildings on-site
preserve the spectacular views
from the adjoining forest trails.
Yet, a fourth benefit to the organization
is that this level of design
makes the best use of donated funds.
While experts vary
on the exact percentages,
over the lifetime
of a typical building,
operational and maintenance costs can be
four to six times
the initial construction costs.
So the more efficient the design
and construction, the more long-term savings
are realized for the organization.
For instance,
an independent energy consultant
recently calculated
that we could expect to see savings
of over one million dollars annually
from the energy-efficient measures
incorporated
into our project as compared
to a standard construction
of similar facilities.
But you may be curious
as to what
energy and environmental features
were incorporated into the Warwick project
to earn these awards and save funds.
These features covered
multiple aspects of design.
They basically fall into five categories:
landscaping,
rainwater control,
lighting control,
energy efficiency,
and water usage.
With respect to the first category
—landscaping—
a control system checks rainfall
and local weather conditions
to determine how much water
is needed
in each irrigation zone,
and drought-resistant native plants and trees
also reduce water needs.
The second category is rainwater control.
All rainwater
from the roofs and building surfaces
is treated with green roofs,
bioretention areas,
permeable concrete paving,
underground sand filters,
and storm-water planters.
Yet a third category is lighting control.
Lighting sensors
in perimeter window spaces
are linked to a control system
that balances
natural lighting with fluorescent lighting,
while still permitting
the occupant control as desired.
The fourth category is energy efficiency.
High-efficiency HVAC equipment,
boilers, and chillers were incorporated.
A geothermal well field
consisting of some 120 wells
takes advantage of renewable energy
to supplement
building heating and cooling needs.
And with respect to our fifth category
—water usage—
water is conserved in all the buildings
by means of plumbing fixtures that use
lower volumes of water.
As we stated earlier,
the operation and maintenance expense
is the greatest part
of a building’s total cost.
To the extent that we practice water,
lighting, and energy conservation
in our individual rooms and work places
—to that extent we can have
a personal share
in realizing the full benefit,
potential, and purpose
of these new facilities
at Wallkill and Warwick.
And what knitted together
all of these features,
making the awards possible though,
were the people.
This was only because
of the close cooperation
and tireless efforts of the thousands
who worked in various areas
such as design, purchasing
and construction.
It truly was a strong testimony
to the power of unity.
Certainly, Jehovah’s heart
is filled with joy
as he sees all the fine work
that has been accomplished
and the glory that it’s brought
and will continue to bring to his name.